# Video-Game-Analysis

**Objective:** It is possible to divide data analysis into two fields: Hypothesis Generation and Hypothesis Confirmation (Also called confirmatory analysis). In this project I will deal only with analysis, where the objective is to understand how the data is distributed and generate insight for future decision-making, this analysis aims to explore as much as possible the data in a simple, intuitive and informative way. The data used in this project contains information only from 1980 to 2016. Below is a sketch of all the stages made in these notebooks, following a logical and intuitive sequence to facilitate the understanding of the data.

**Dataset:** The data set used in this project is available in the Kaggle [vgsales.csv](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/gregorut/videogamesales). The raw data contains 16598 rows and 11 columns. This dataset contains a list of video games with sales greater than 100,000 copies. It was generated by a scrape of vgchartz.com.

### Assumption
**A1:** Are sales for a particular game platform affected by the genre of the game? <br/>
**A2:** Is there a correlation between the rating of a game and its sales? <br/>
**A3:** Are games with higher production costs more likely to generate higher sales? <br/>
**A4:** Does the release year of a game have an impact on its sales? <br/>
**A5:** Is there a relationship between the region where a game is released and its sales?<br/>
**A6:** Are there specific publishers that consistently produce top-selling games?<br/>
**A7:** Is there a difference in sales between games that are exclusive to a particular platform versus those that are released on multiple platforms?<br/>
**A8:** Does the presence of multiplayer modes in games impact their sales?<br/>

### Research Questions
**Q1:** What are the top-selling video game platforms of all time?<br/>
**Q2:** What is the trend in video game sales over time?<br/>
**Q3:** Which publishers have released the most games and which ones have the highest total sales?<br/>
**Q4:** How do sales vary by region, and which regions have the highest total sales?<br/>
**Q6:** How have different game genres performed in terms of sales over time?<br/>
**Q7:** Are there any notable differences in sales performance between different regions of the world?<br/>
**Q8:** Which individual games have been the highest-selling of all time?<br/>
**Q9:** What is the average lifespan of a video game console, and how does this affect the sales of games released on that platform?<br/>
**Q10:** Are there any significant differences in sales performance between games with different ESRB ratings?<br/>
**Q11:** Which game genres are the most popular among gamers?<br/>
### Hypothesis
Open web link : [Click Here](https://uqbaahmad.github.io/Video-Game-Analysis/)
